[Wednesday] File attachments combined (#91)
xataio/mdx-blog: file-attachments.mdx

### Your images, your way with image transformations

Looking at the most common scenarios where relational data is used together with binary files, the image use case stands out. All web applications use images today and images tend to require processing before they are rendered. Xata file attachments come with a [comprehensive set of image transformations](https://xata.io/docs/concepts/file-attachments#image-transformations) -- from resizing to photo adjustments to changing format and compression.

All transformations are applied at the edge and are cached by default. Again, Xata leverages Cloudflare functionality for image transformations.

We considered more flexible transformation definitions through query parameters or request body objects, but in the end chose the industry standard of defining the transformations in the URL path. This makes it easier to embed the transformation into a web page and the transformation is automatically included in the cache key within the CDN.

> ```json

Reviewer: `json` doesn't render great on this one, since it's just the URL. Perhaps `text` might be good?

Author: 👍 removing `json`

---
 title: 'File Attachments: Databases can now store files and images'
 description: 'Extending a database record to include a new file column type with a global CDN, common security boundaries and image transformations.'
 image:
   src: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/fa_blog_illustration.jpeg
   alt: 'File Attachments: Databases can now store files and images'
 author: Sorin Toma
 date: 08-30-2023
 published: true
 slug: file-attachments
 ogImage: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/fa_blog_illustration.jpeg
---

> Today, as part of [our launch week](https://xata.io/blog/launch-week-august-2023), we’re beyond excited to announce a feature that we've wanted to add ever since we started Xata: File Attachments. Think of it as having a new database column type where you can store files of any size, and behind the scenes they are stored in AWS S3 and cached through a global CDN. With this approach, files simply become part of a database record. For example, they respect the same security boundary -- if you delete a record, the files also get deleted. Image file types also get some extra functionality allowing you to request them at any size and style with built-in transformations.

Reviewer: Changing the example because didn't match too well the "security boundary' part.

```suggestion
Today, as part of [our launch week](https://xata.io/blog/launch-week-august-2023), we’re beyond excited to announce a feature that we've wanted to add ever since we started Xata: File Attachments. Think of it as having a new database column type where you can store files of any size, and behind the scenes they are stored in AWS S3 and cached through a global CDN. With this approach, files simply become part of a database record. For example, they respect the same security boundary -- if you can access a record, you can also access its attached files. Image file types also get some extra functionality allowing you to request them at any size and style with built-in transformations.
```

> Whether you’re building a full scale e-commerce application, a personal blog or evolving your product to be AI-native — file attachments unlock a number of new use cases while providing an opportunity to simplify your architecture and reduce the number of services you rely on.

Reviewer: This is a bit repetitive with a line in the next section "Think about a blog which uses both posts metadata and images, a product catalogue or a document library."

And it's a bit market-y, I worry a bit about it's impact on the HN audience.

Author: Removed the marketing-y piece and left the problem we're trying to solve

> Today, as part of [our launch week](https://xata.io/blog/launch-week-august-2023), we’re beyond excited to announce a feature that we've wanted to add ever since we started Xata: File Attachments. Think of it as having a new database column type where you can store files of any size, and behind the scenes they are stored in AWS S3 and cached through a global CDN. Files simply become a part of a database record. For example, they respect the same security boundary -- if you can access a record, you can also access its attached files. Image file types also get some extra functionality allowing you to request them at any size and style with built-in transformations. With this release, we aim to simplify your application architecture and reduce the number of services you need to manage.
> 
> In this blog we'll dive into the capabilities released today and architecture behind our implementation. We hope you enjoy the read as much as we did building it 😃

### Adding file storage to the database

Both files and relational data are ubiquitous in todays applications. Even the most basic scenarios generally require both structured relational data and file storage. Think about a blog which uses both posts metadata and images, a product catalogue or a document library. They all require basic data record management and query capabilities, as well as storage and access to large binary objects like images, videos, and documents.

We often see engineers using a relational database with a separate storage service to store the data used by their application. In most cases the binary files are related to the relational data, therefore the common pattern is to store a file link in the database. This experience adds unnecessary friction and we saw an opportunity to simplify. Because file storage use cases are so closely correlated to data, we decided to embed [file attachments](https://xata.io/docs/concepts/file-attachments) directly into our serverless database and bring a new experience for building data apps that require binary storage.

> > Xata has become a critical part of my development cycle because I can quickly create and modify data structures without having to handle the database and migrations myself. Extending my records to include images has been great because I can easily apply transformations to them in the SDK. What I'm really excited about the ability to store any file type securely inside my database, it allows me to eliminate additional services like AWS S3.  

Reviewer: Could we intro the quote with something like:

> We've shown this feature to a number of developers before releasing it, and this is the type of feedback we've received:

Author: Trying it out

Author: I'm not sure how I feel about this haha. What do you think?

Reviewer: I like it like this, I think 3 is enough.
